Added force withdrawal guide (#872)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/protocol/rollup/forced-deposit.mdx

---
title: Forced Deposit
lang: en-US
description: Learn the forced deposit flow during sequencer downtime.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

## Forced Deposit Flow

This guide explains the nuances of forced deposits transactions during sequencer downtime.

> Users are allowed to force-include deposit transactions, which can initiate withdrawals, at any time.

Reviewer: nit on phrasing, just to make it more clear there's no permissioned role "allowing" it
```suggestion
Users are able to force-include deposit transactions, which can initiate withdrawals, at any time.
```

However, there are important nuances to understand about the chain derivation pipeline and sequencer behavior.

## Key Concepts

> *   **Sequencing Window**: A 12-hour rolling window to include L2 transactions based on L1 data.

Reviewer: Hmm, I think this includes native L2 transactions also, e.g. 
```suggestion
*   **Sequencing Window**: A 12-hour rolling window to include L2 transactions, including native L2 transactions and deposit transactions.
```
but we should confirm with @protolambda

Author: @protolambda can you please confirm this?

Reviewer 2: I can confirm that this is correct

Reviewer 3: The 12 hour rolling window limits how long the batch-submitter has to include the native transactions. After this window, the L2 will be deterministically derived from the L1 data that is there, and leave no room for late batch-submission transactions.

Updating the wording, to explain that the `Sequencing window` ensures that there is a chain in case of persistent inactivity of the batch-submitter, would be nice.

> *   **Max Time Drift**: 15 minutes, the maximum delay for including a deposit transaction.

Reviewer 3: See slack; I was wrong with the 15 minute parameter. It's actually 30 minutes.
